Table of Contents
Table of Contents
UCAS Requirements, UVU Requirements......................................................................................4
Graduation, Counseling Department. ..............................................................................................5
Policies and Standards...................................................................................................................5
Academic Progress.....................................................................................................................5
Academic Standing ....................................................................................................................7
Appeals, Attendance ..................................................................................................................8
Clubs..........................................................................................................................................9
Code of Conduct, ADA Accommodations, Activity Cards.....................................................10
Address Change, Athletics, Business Hours, Cheating,
Class Changes, Class Interruptions....................................................................................11
Closed Campus, Collections, Computer Use...........................................................................12
Computer Usage and Fraud, Criminal Behavior......................................................................19
Dances, Dress Code for Dances, Disclosure Statements, Discrimination ...............................20
Dress and Grooming ................................................................................................................25
Electronic Devices...................................................................................................................27
Eligibility, Emergency Evacuation ..........................................................................................28
Fundraising, Grade Changes, Home and Hospital, Home School,
Insurance, Lost and Found.................................................................................................29
Non-Discrimination, Overnight Activities, Parking, Personal Property..................................30
Prescription Drugs, Progress Reports, Public Display of Affection........................................31
Refunds, Scholarships, Sexual Harassment.............................................................................32
Snowballs, Visitors..................................................................................................................33
Consequence Procedures.............................................................................................................34
Orderly and Safe Schools........................................................................................................ 34
Authority to Suspend or Expel.................................................................................................35
Alternatives to Suspension, Parent Responsibilities................................................................36
Disciplinary Actions ................................................................................................................37
Illegal Behavior ............................................................................................................................38
Alcohol and Controlled Substance Abuse, Disciplinary Actions............................................39
Tobacco Use, Disciplinary Actions, Student Self-Referral,
Records of Policy Violations.............................................................................................41
Due Process..............................................................................................................................42
Glossary ........................................................................................................................................43
4
CLASS OF 2024
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS BY CATEGORY
Required Courses
4 Credits English
3 Credits Social Studies
4 Credits Mathematics
1 Credit Life Science
1 Credit Physical Science
2 Credits Elective Science (either life or physical)
.5 Credit Physical Education - Participation Skills
.5 Credit Physical Education – Fitness for Life
1 Credit STEM – Major and Careers
.5 Credit Health Education
.5 Credit Exploring Computer Systems – Information Processing
1 Credit Career and Technical Education
1 Credit Fine Arts
.5 Credit Financial Literacy
20.5 Core Credits
3.5 Credits elective choices.
24 TOTAL CREDITS NEEDED FOR HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION
UTAH VALLEY UNIVERSITY
Associate in Science/Arts Degree Academic Year 2021-2022
Taking classes at UCAS for university credit is a privilege. Please see academic standards
procedures for details on CE and UVU on-campus courses.
Required Courses
3 Credits English 1010*#
3 Credits English 2010*#
3 Credits Math 1030 or 1040 or 1050*+#
3 Credits Philosophy 2050#
2 Credits Health 1100 or PE 1097* #
3 Credits Communications 1020+# or Humanities 1010+#
6 Credits Social Science – POLS 1100*+# and HIST 1700*+#
3 Credits Fine Art – Drawing 1110*+# or Art 1010*+#
3 Credits Biology 1010+*# or 1610*+#
3 Credits Physical Science*+#
3 Credits Biology or Physical Science*+#
25 Credits elective credits level 1000 or higher.
35 TOTAL CREDITS NEEDED FOR GENERAL EDUCATION CERTIFICATE
60 TOTAL CREDITS NEEDED FOR UVU GRADUATION (AS DEGREE)
*recommended for both High School and UVU credits
+ taught at UCAS
# required for General Education Certificate
5
Graduation Attendance Requirement
Students wishing to graduate with a UCAS diploma must attend full time during the last semester
before graduation from UCAS, complete all required makeup, and have their graduation clearance
form signed by all involved.
Graduation Exceptions
Exceptions to the listed requirements may be requested as follows: Students may submit a petition,
in writing, to the UCAS Review Committee for consideration. These should be submitted before
the last Monday in April. Decisions of the graduation committee are final and will be returned to
the applicant in written form. Approved exceptions to the prescribed graduation requirements will
be the exception and not the rule.
Graduating with Honors or High Honors
Students desiring Honors or High Honors recognition at UCAS graduation must meet with the
counselors. (3.5 = Honors / 3.7 = High Honors)
Counseling Department
If you have educational, occupational or personal/social questions or concerns please see any of
our counselors.
UCAS POLICIES AND STANDARDS
*The policies and standards in the printed handbook are up to date at the time of printing. Please
see the UCAS website for the most recent versions of these policies and standards.
UCAS policies have been established to provide a safe, orderly, and educational environment as
required by law. All students are expected to respect others (students, teachers, staff, etc.), respect
property (personal, school, public, etc.), and be safe and follow UCAS standards.
UCAS Board Policy ID
Policy on Student Academic Progress
The academic progress of the students is a concern to all. Monitoring the academic growth is a
critical step in the educational process. For students attending classes at the Utah County Academy
of Sciences (UCAS), every attempt will be made to return work done by the students in a timely
manner. UCAS instructors will review student progress periodically and share the information
with the students. Parents and students are strongly encouraged to monitor their own academic
progress using the available on-line resources, attending parent teacher conferences, and
contacting teachers directly when appropriate. Unsatisfactory progress in either the academic or
citizenship area at UCAS will be shared with the student and the parent or guardian. Parents and
students can check on the academic progress procedures that are implemented by viewing the
UCAS school website and the student handbook for UCAS Academic Student Standing
information.
6
UCAS is an early college high school which helps transition students from high school to college.
Students are taught to advocate for themselves and to monitor their own academic progress. For
UCAS students attending college courses on the Mountainland Technology College (MTECH)
and/or Utah Valley University (UVU) campus, academic progress is the responsibility of the
student. Parents/guardians will not be notified by the instructor as to the academic progress of a
student.
Students who fail a course or wish to retake it to earn a higher grade will be responsible for paying
the tuition of any repeated course.
Student at Risk of Academic Failure - Enhancement for At-Risk Students
In accordance with R277-708-5, the Utah County Academy of Sciences Board of Trustees has
adopted the following LEA specific definition of “Student At-Risk of School Academic Failure”.
This definition is to be used for the Enhancement for At-Risk Students and related programs.
Definitions
“Student At-Risk of School Academic Failure” are defined as students for whom any of the
following situations apply:
1. Is identified as having “low performance” or “below proficient”:
a. Low performance may include has scored “below proficient” on any USBE assessment in
any of the previous three years. Or
b. Is “off-track” for graduation:
i. The sum of credits already earned by a student, plus the credits that may be earned in
the regular school schedule, is insufficient for a student to graduate by the student’s
expected cohort graduation date.
ii. May be calculated either in total number of credits or by specific graduation
requirement.
c. Is “trending off-track” for graduation:
i. The sum of credits already earned by a student, plus the projected number of credits
that a student would earn if the student’s rate of credit attainment continues in future
terms, is insufficient for a student to graduate by the student’s expected cohort
graduation rate.
ii. May be calculated either in total number of credits or by specific graduation
requirement.
2. Is identified as an English Language Learner or a Title I student receiving CCGP supports.
3. Is identified as having “mobility” concerns which may include having below 90% attendance.
4. Is identified as “low-income” student which may be identified through the free and reduced
lunch application or fee waiver form provided by the school.
R277-708
Updated 10/2018
7
Academic Standing and Scholarship Qualifications
UCAS Scholarship to UVU/MTECH:
UVU/MTECH courses may be taken after the student has been enrolled at UCAS for a year. The
only courses UCAS will pay for at UVU during 10th grade are accelerated Math – when eligible.
All UCAS and high school courses must be done before any other UVU/MTECH courses are
paid by UCAS.
UCAS students are scheduled for courses according to their CCR so that students complete
requirements in the following order:
1. High school credits,
2. Higher Ed required credits,
3. Higher Ed elective credits.
UCAS will pay for higher ed courses when this order is followed. UCAS will pay for up to 60
credits - when the student reaches the required University Studies general associate degree
requirements (See Policy JH Core Curriculum and Graduation requirements). No matter which
scholarship a student chooses and qualifies for, they are responsible for the cost of books for oncampus courses. For MTECH programs, students are also responsible for payment of program
fees.
Full Scholarship All passing grades. Semester and
cumulative GPA above a 3.0.
Full Scholarship Awarded
Partial
Scholarship
Minimum semester GPA 2.0 and
minimum cumulative GPA 2.9, or
One or more failed class
Maximum 3 UVU on-campus classes or 1
MTECH program of study. UCAS review
committee must approve a letter of
explanation written by the student and any
failed classes must be repaid or retaken at
student expense.
Limited
Scholarship
Semester GPA below 2.0 or Cumulative
GPA below 2.9
1 MTECH program of study, high school
and CE credits available. UCAS review
committee must approve a letter of
explanation written by the student and any
failed classes must be repaid or retaken at
student expense.
Failing Grades:
Students who receive an F, I, W, UW or E grade must pay UCAS back for the failed course or
pay to retake the SAME course. Failure to do so in a timely manner will limit opportunity to
take UVU on-campus classes and graduation status. UCAS will not pay for UVU on-campus
classes until the failed class has been repaid or scheduled to be retaken. Concurrent
enrollment classes can only be taken once; a student cannot repeat any concurrent enrollment
class for any reason.
8
Appeals
A student may make an appeal to the UCAS Review Committee at any time. The UCAS Review
Committee will look at the overall student success as well and the actual appeal letter that is
written. UCAS Review Committee decisions are limited and must comply with UVU
requirements. Students who are not eligible for UCAS to pay for UVU on-campus classes may
elect to pay for their own classes. (See guidelines for student appeal letter)
NOTE: Students must also comply with UVU academic standards:
http://www.uvu.edu/academicstandards/
Attendance Procedure
See Policy JA for a full description of the attendance policy
Class attendance is essential for students to receive instruction and participate in activities that
are difficult to replicate outside of class. Due to the accelerated pace of UCAS classes, students
who are excessively absent or tardy may have a difficult time making up work and keeping pace
with coursework. Additionally, students with attendance issues risk losing their scholarship to
UVU. As a preventive measure, UCAS has a strict attendance policy as outlined below.
Absences: Students may lose credit or their UCAS scholarship to UVU if their attendance
is less than 90% in any class. Having more than 10 absences in any class will drop a student’s
attendance to below 90%. Absences due to medical reasons will be excused with a doctor’s note
and will not be counted against the 90% attendance policy. Students are responsible for all inclass work that is missed. *The Career Exploration course at UCAS is considered a UVU course
with its own attendance procedures – see course syllabus for more information.
Tardiness: Parents cannot excuse tardies. Students are given 5 free tardies per semester (note
this is not per class, but 5 tardies overall). Once the free tardies are used, detentions are accrued
for every third tardy starting with the sixth.
All students who arrive late or leave early must sign in at the office. Use the following
guidelines to determine if your student will be counted as absent or tardy:
Arrival between 1 and 10 minutes late = Tardy
Arrival after 10 minutes = Absent
Leave before last 10 minutes of class = Absent
• Please excuse absences within 5 days. They can be excused by parent or doctor note,
email to the school (info@ucas-edu.net), or phone call.
• If an absence is not excused within a reasonable timeframe, it will be considered a sluff
(skip) and a detention will be assigned.
• A student may make an appeal to the UCAS Review Committee at any time. The UCAS
Review Committee will look at the overall student success as well as the actual appeal
letter that is written. Students with poor grades, poor attendance, or a history of behavior
challenges are less likely to have their appeal approved.
• The UCAS policy will be followed as written in all but exceptional cases.
9
Attendance of Extracurricular Activities
Extracurricular excuses will be given for off-campus state, region, or school approved events.
These must be cleared with the administration and main office five days prior to the event. No
extracurricular attendance excuses will be given for experiences other than those coordinated by
UCAS. Extracurricular excuses do not extend to UVU.
UCAS Attendance and Grade Tracking
UCAS provides immediate computerized attendance information to assist parents and students.
Students or parents may check attendance using the computers in the computer lab, commons area,
or at UVU. Attendance and grade information is also available on the internet at www.UCASedu.net. A paper containing the student/parent password for the UCAS/SIS internet attendance
tracking is given to each student and parent at registration in August.
UCAS Board Policy JG
Organization of School Clubs
Club Applications are available on the UCAS website. The Utah County Academy of Sciences
(UCAS) may allow for student clubs in order to provide school participation opportunities for
students who are enrolled at UCAS.
1. Club Approval
All clubs at UCAS must be approved by the UCAS Review Committee. The Review Committee
members are selected each year by the Director of Counseling from the faculty and counselors. The
Review Committee must contain at least three members. The Review Committee also reviews the
operations and success of the clubs. Approved clubs must have an established purpose which supports
the educational mission of UCAS and is tied to a specific curriculum. Clubs must have a faculty
advisor approved by the UCAS administration. The Review Committee may exempt a club from the
authorization process if the club is governed by a state or national organization such as the National
Honor Society (NHS). UCAS clubs are for UCAS students only.
2. Application Process
The written application for approval of a UCAS club must include the following:
a. The applicant’s names including faculty and students
b. The requested club name
c. The requested regular meeting times, dates, and places
d. A statement of the club’s purpose, goals, and activities
e. A statement assuring that the club will comply with all applicable laws, rules, and policies
f. A budget showing the amount and source of any funding provided or to be provided to the club and
the proposed use of the funds
g. Requirements for membership
h. A club constitution or bylaws which will include the process of selecting club leadership, etc.
i. A statement of the club’s curricular categorization (athletic, economic/ business, communications,
community service, science, computers, art/music/performance, or other).
10
Each club application must be approved, denied, or investigated by the Review Committee in a
timely manner. If an application is denied, written reasons for the denial or results of the
investigation shall be stated and, if appropriate, suggested corrections to remedy the deficiency
given.
3. Parent Consent
A student must obtain written consent from their parent or guardian before joining a UCAS
club or participating in any club activities. The consent form must include important
information regarding the club so that the parent can make an informed decision. The consent
form is not required for attendance to introductory meetings but those meetings must be
approved by the administration.
4. Club Guidelines
All club activities and programs must be planned and organized so that they are not detrimental
to the physical, emotional, psychological, or moral well being of students. They should not
interfere with the maintenance of order and discipline on the school premises nor should they
interfere with the orderly conduct of the school’s educational activities. All club fees must be
approved by the Board of Trustees and shall be published with the approved school fee
schedule.
5. Appeal Procedures
If a club is denied, suspended, or terminated by the Review Committee, the club, advisor or
person directly affected by the decision has 10 days to file a written appeal to the UCAS
administration. The administration will issue a written determination within a reasonable
amount of time. The decision of the administration is final.
Updated 10/2018
Code of Conduct
UCAS students should conduct themselves in a respectful, safe, and appropriate manner at all
times. Proper conduct varies from one activity to another. The conduct expected in the library
varies from appropriate conduct during an outdoor activity. Any conduct that is disruptive to the
orderly process of education is not appropriate and may result in a disciplinary action or
suspension.
Accommodations - ADA
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special
accommodations during ANY MEETING at UCAS should notify the UCAS office at 863-2222 at
least three working days prior to the meeting.
Activity Cards
UCAS students are required to have activity cards and should carry them at all times. Activity
cards are needed for library use, testing, tutoring and help sessions, UTA bus pass, and school
activities. A charge will be assessed by UVU for replacement cards. If the activity card is also used
11
as a debit card, then the student must contact their bank for a replacement. Bus passes are
embedded in the UVU activity card. If the pass is lost, and the student needs a bus pass, the full
amount of the bus pass will need to be paid. Students who violate school rules may lose their access
to school activities. Using another person’s activity card to try to enter an event is attempted fraud.
Misused activity cards may be confiscated by UCAS, UVU, or UTA.
Address Change
Parents are required by law to notify the school of physical, e-mail address and phone number
changes. In emergencies it is critical that UCAS be able to contact parents.
Athletics and the NCAA
Students who anticipate participating in college athletics should contact their counselor for current
NCAA requirements. It is the student’s responsibility to track and meet NCAA guidelines.
Students are encouraged to stay at their home high school on a full time basis if participating in
athletic activities.
Business Hours
UCAS Main Office hours are 8:00 am to 4:30 pm during school days. The school is not open
weekends or holidays. Most teachers will be available before and after school to answer questions
and help students.
Cheating
Some examples of cheating are copying work from another student, quoting another paper, the
internet, a book, or an article without giving credit to the author (plagiarism), storing information
in an electronic device for a test, putting your name on a paper belonging to another, and passing
information to others about specific information on a test. Students who cheat will lose credit for
tests or assignments and could likely lose credit for the class.
Class Changes
Schedule changes should be made before the start of each semester. An “F” grade will be recorded
for a student who drops a class after two weeks into the semester except those initiated by teachers
or administrators, when a class is substituted AND when the change is approved by all teachers
involved. Students are responsible to see that their schedules are correct.
Classroom Interruptions
Parents, students, and visitors may NOT interrupt classes. If an emergency arises, the main office
will contact the student immediately. Non-emergency messages will be given to the students in
between classes. Every effort will be made to get non-emergency messages to the students as soon
as possible but not generally during class. PLEASE feel free to contact your students between
12
classes or during their lunch period. DO NOT TEXT OR CALL YOUR STUDENT DURING
CLASS TIME!
Closed Campus
Student safety is of paramount concern at UCAS. With the heavy traffic congestion and possibility
for injury, the UCAS campus is a closed campus. Students may leave campus during school hours
only if they have checked-out in the main office. Please see our visitor policy.
Collections
All money is collected at the main office. (Lunch money can also be paid in the kitchen).
Delinquent bills may be referred to a collection agency for follow-up. Please see the administration
if you have a special circumstance or financial need.
UCAS Board Policy CC
Acceptable Computer System Use Policy
Employee and Student Computer, Email, and Internet Use Policy Agreement
1. PURPOSE AND PHILOSOPHY
The Utah County Academy of Sciences’ (UCAS) Board of Trustees believes that computer
use is a valuable and necessary component of a UCAS student and employee's work. In
addition, varying work responsibilities result in access to information from sources such as
software programs, the Internet, the UCAS network, etc. Access and authorization to the
UCAS computer systems and information carry a corresponding responsibility to their
appropriate use.
Annually, every student and employee will be required to sign this Acceptable Use
Agreement found in CC – Form A.
2. DEFINITIONS
2.1. Electronic devices include, but are not limited to:
2.1.1. Beepers,
2.1.2. Pagers,
2.1.3. Cell phones, with and without picture taking capacity,
2.1.4. Blackberries,
2.1.5. I-Phones; and
2.1.6. Hands-free devices (Bluetooth)
3. ACCESS
3.1. The Utah County Academy of Sciences (UCAS) may provide computers, networks,
and filtered Internet access to support the educational mission of the school and to
enhance the curriculum and learning opportunities for students and employees. The
internet service at UCAS is provided and monitored by the Utah Education Network
(UEN) as a public service.
3.2. Access and use of the school’s computers, networks, and Internet access is provided
13
for administrative, educational, communication, and research purposes consistent
with the school’s educational mission, curriculum, and instructional goals. General
rules and expectations for professional behavior and communication apply to the use
of the school’s computers, networks, and Internet access.
3.3. UCAS students and employees are to utilize the school's computers, networks, and
Internet access for educational purposes, the performance of job duties, and
professional or career development activities. Incidental personal use by students and
employees of the school's computers, networks, and Internet access is permitted as
long as such use does not:
3.3.1. interfere with the student’s education or the employee's job duties and
performance;
3.3.2. interfere with computer system operations; and/or
3.3.3. interfere with other computer system users.
3.4. "Incidental personal use" is defined as use by an individual student or employee for
occasional personal communication and information.
4. SYSTEM SECURITY
The school utilizes an Internet filtering system to assist in restricting access to Internet sites
containing material that is obscene, pornographic, or harmful to minors. Even though the
school and the UEN take reasonable efforts to block material that is obscene, pornographic,
or harmful to minors, no filtering system or features will filter out all obscene, pornographic,
harmful, or inappropriate material. It is the responsibility of the computer system users to
maintain a high level of integrity to protect themselves and others from such inappropriate
material. As used herein, references to the terms “obscene,” “obscenity,” “pornographic,”
“pornography,” “child pornography”, and “harmful to minors” are defined by applicable state
and federal laws, regulations, and cases.
5. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
5.1. Each student, employee, or other computer system user is responsible for his/her
actions and activities involving the school's computers, networks, and Internet access,
and for his/her computer files, passwords, and accounts. General examples of
unacceptable uses which are expressly prohibited include, but are not limited to, the
following:
5.1.1. Any use that is illegal or in violation of Board of Trustees policies and/or
administrative procedures, directives, or rules, including, but not limited to,
bullying, harassment, discrimination (i.e., race, color, gender, nationality,
religion, age, or disability), defamation, violent or threatening
communications and behavior, infringement of copyright or trademark laws,
offering for sale, purchase, or use of any prohibited or illegal substances, etc.
5.1.2. Any use involving obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit, sexually
suggestive, or any other harmful or inappropriate material.
5.1.3. Any inappropriate communication that is obscene, profane, lewd, vulgar,
belligerent, inflammatory, or threatening.
5.1.4. Any use for private or commercial financial gain, advertising, or solicitation
purposes.
5.1.5. Any use as a forum to solicit, proselytize, advocate, or communicate the views
14
of an individual or a non-school sponsored organization, to solicit
membership in or support of any non-school sponsored organization, or to
raise funds for any non-school sponsored purpose, whether for profit or not
for profit.
5.1.6. Any communication that represents personal views as those of the school or
that could be misinterpreted as such.
5.1.7. Downloading or loading copyrighted or illegal software or other hazardous
applications or files is prohibited. Downloading network wide software is
allowed only with written permission from the school principal or other
appropriate administrator.
5.1.8. Any student use of Internet chat rooms except when monitored as a class
activity.
5.1.9. Any unauthorized attempt to bypass the school Internet filtering systems and
features.
5.1.10. Any malicious use or disruption of the school's computers, networks, and
Internet access or breach of security features.
5.1.11. Any physical or electronic vandalism to the computer system or equipment.
5.1.12. Failing to report a known breach of computer security or violations of this
Policy to the school principal or other appropriate administrator.
5.1.13. Any attempt to delete, erase, or otherwise conceal any information stored on
a school computer that violates Board of Trustees policies and/or
administrative procedures, directives, and rules.
5.1.14. Using the school's computer network or Internet to gain unauthorized access
to other computers or computer systems, or to attempt to gain such
unauthorized access.
5.1.15. Any use involving damaging, dangerous, or disruptive material.
5.1.16. Any use involving personal or generalized attacks or harassment, or to
communicate false or defamatory information.
5.2. The foregoing list provides general guidelines and examples of prohibited uses for
illustrative purposes, but does not attempt to state all required or prohibited activities
by computer system users. Students, employees, and other computer system users
who have questions regarding whether a particular activity or use is acceptable should
seek further guidance from the school's principal or other appropriate administrator.
5.3. The school retains control, custody, and supervision over all computers, networks,
and Internet access owned, licensed, or leased by the school. The school reserves the
right to monitor all computer and Internet activity by students, employees, and other
computer system users. Students, employees, and other computer system users have
no expectation of privacy in their use of the school's computer system and equipment.
5.4. Employees and other computer system users are expected to use appropriate
judgment and caution in communications concerning students and staff to ensure that
personally identifiable information remains confidential. Employees and other
computer system users with access to student records may not use, release, or share
these records, except as authorized by federal and state law.
5.5. For personal safety purposes in using the school's Internet access, computer system
users are advised not to disclose personal information such as home addresses, home
telephone numbers, social security numbers, etc.
15
5.6. The Utah State Core Curriculum requires students to become effective and efficient
users of online resources. Students need access to e-mail and the Internet to meet
these requirements. Employees and volunteers assigned to supervise student use of
computers must insure compliance with this Policy. Although student use of the
school's computer system at school will be generally supervised by school staff,
UCAS cannot guarantee that students will not gain access to inappropriate material.
The school encourages parents/legal guardians to have a discussion with their
students about values and how those beliefs should guide student activities while
using the school's computers, networks, and Internet access.
5.7. All computer system users shall be responsible for any and all claims, losses,
damages, or costs (including attorneys' fees) associated with their use of the school's
computers, networks, and Internet access, including, but not limited to, illegal uses,
copyright and trademark violations, defamation, discrimination, harassment, etc. All
computer users shall hold harmless and indemnify the school and its employees and
agents from such claims, losses, damages, and costs.
5.8. The school assumes no responsibility for any unauthorized charges made by
computer system users, including, but not limited to, credit card charges,
subscriptions, long distance telephone charges, equipment and line costs, etc., and
shall hold harmless and indemnify the school and its employees and agents from such
unauthorized charges.
5.9. The school makes no warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied, that the
functions or the services of the computer system provided by or through the school
will be error-free or without defect. The school will not be responsible for any
damage users may suffer, including, but not limited to, loss of data or interruptions
of service. The school is not responsible for the accuracy or quality of the information
obtained through or stored on the computer system.
5.10. Access and use of the school's computers, networks, and Internet access is a privilege
and not a right. This privilege may be revoked at any time for failure to comply with
the terms and conditions of this Policy and/or applicable administrative procedures,
directives, and rules.
5.11. Any student who violates this Policy and/or applicable administrative procedures,
directives, and rules governing the use of school computers will be subject to
disciplinary action, such as losing computer use privileges, suspension, and
expulsion. The introduction of a computer virus to the school network, whether
intentional or unintentional may result in the student, his/her parents, or a staff
member being charged for the repair of the system. Illegal uses by students of school
computers will also result in referral to law enforcement authorities.
5.12. Any employee who violates this Policy and/or applicable administrative procedures,
directives, and rules governing the use of school computers will be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including employment termination. Professionally
licensed employees may be referred to the Utah Professional Practices Advisory
Commission (UPPAC), along with any and all evidence, for investigation and
possible disciplinary action against professional licensing. Illegal uses by employees
of school computers will also result in referral to law enforcement authorities.
5.13. Annually, each employee authorized to access the school's computers, networks and
Internet access is required to sign an "Employee Computer Use Agreement" stating
16
that they have read the Agreement, this Policy, and Administrative Procedures, and
agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth therein. The "Employee
Computer Use Agreement" will be retained in the employee's school file.
5.14. Each school year, every student authorized to access the school's computers,
networks, and Internet access shall be required to provide the school a "Student
Computer Use Agreement" signed by the student and a parent/legal guardian stating
that they have read the Agreement, this Policy, and Administrative Procedures, and
agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth therein.
5.15. Notice of the availability of this Policy shall be posted in a conspicuous place within
the school.
6. PERSONAL ELECTRONIC DEVICES
6.1. Electronic devices, whether personal or school issued, may be used during the school day
or during school-sponsored activities as follows:
6.1.1. Students may have electronic devices in their possession during the regular
school day.
6.1.2. The devices must remain out of sight during instructional time and be turned off
or on a silent mode.
6.1.3. If students intentionally use or respond to electronic devices during instructional
time or during time identified by teachers, electronic devices may be confiscated.
6.1.4. Devices may be retrieved by individuals designated by the school. Students may
also be subject to school discipline.
6.1.5. UCAS Administration shall establish a warning schedule for student violations
which all school employees shall follow (see student handbook). Exceptions may
be made for individual students or for specific time periods as warranted. Time
periods shall be interpreted with flexibility.
6.1.6. Electronic devices must be either turned off of held in a secure place by the
teacher, as determined by individual teacher, during class quizzes, tests and
standardized assessments.
6.1.7. Electronic devices inappropriately used or disclosed may be subject to search by
school administration based on reasonable suspicion.
6.2. Exceptions to general electronic device policy shall be made consistent with UCAS
policies, but in the judgment and discretion of individual teachers. Some exceptions
include, but are not limited to:
6.2.1. Medical reasons - School administrators may give permission for students to
possess electronic devices for good cause shown if the devices do not distract
from the instructional or education process.
6.2.2. Parent request - Parent(s) may request that a student possess an electronic device
on active mode at all times during the school day , with the exception of during
course or subject tests and standardized assessments. Teachers shall grant such
requests for good cause shown. (Good cause may include medical needs or
unusual family situations.)
6.2.3. Teacher permission - A teacher may permit a student to have an electronic device
in his possession at all times during a regular school day, including during
assessments, based on a written §504 plan, an IEP or legitimate circumstances as
determined by the individual teacher.
17
6.2.4. Emergency - Students may use electronic devices in situations that threaten the
health, safety or well–being of students (including themselves), school
employees or others.
6.2.5. Parents shall make requests for exceptions to this policy in writing to the school
principal, designee or individual teacher.
7. CONSEQUENCES FOR VIOLATION OF THIS POLICY
7.1. A will receive one warning prior to discipline for violation of this policy, as determined
by the school.
7.2. Designated individuals, upon identification, may retrieve their child’s electronic device
during school hours or by appointment.
7.3. A school may impose other consequences for a student’s violation of the electronic
device policy only following notice of such policy to the school community. Such
penalties are not exhaustive and more than one penalty may be imposed, if warranted.
Such penalties may include:
7.3.1. loss of electronic device privileges
7.3.2. disciplinary letter
7.3.3. in-school suspension
7.3.4. suspension
7.3.5. loss of extracurricular or honor privileges or recognition
7.3.6. If students are defiant and will not cooperate with school administrators and/or
will not surrender electronic device(s), the designated school administrator may
take appropriate action for the safety and well-being of the student and other
students or employees at the school. The school principal or designee shall notify
a parent immediately of additional penalties.
8. CONFISCATED ELECTRONIC DEVICES
8.1. Only licensed UCAS personnel (unless other employees are specifically identified in
policy) may confiscate student electronic devices.
8.2. Licensed UCAS employees are discouraged from searching or reviewing material or
numbers stored on student electronic devices except under compelling circumstances.
8.3. Licensed UCAS employees may search an electronic device if the device is found by the
employee for the limited purpose of determining the device’s owner.
8.4. UCAS will do their best to guard and protect confiscated electronic devices, but are not
responsible for loss, damage, theft.
8.5. UCAS will make a good faith effort to notify parent(s) or designated individuals that
electronic device is in school’s possession and, time and resources permitting, will
maintain electronic devices until the end of the school year. Prior to disposal of devices,
schools/school districts shall clear all personal data.
9. OTHER PROVISIONS
9.1. Picture taking or recording by students is strictly forbidden in school or school activity
private areas, such as locker rooms, counseling sessions, washrooms, and dressing areas.
9.2. Students bring electronic devices on school property or to school activities at their own
risk. The school is not responsible for lost, stolen or damaged electronic equipment.
9.3. Students are strictly responsible for their own electronic devices. If devices are borrowed
18
or taken and misused by non-owners, device owners are jointly responsible for the misuse
or policy violation(s).
9.4. Students and parents should be informed and understand that confiscated electronic
devices may be subject to search by school officials.
9.5. A student’s penalties for violation(s) of an electronic device policy provision may vary
depending upon the intentional nature of the violation, other disciplinary actions the
student may have received and specific circumstances of the violation.
Each school year, each student and his/her parent/legal guardian will be required to sign this
"Student Computer Use Agreement." This Agreement is for the _____ - _____ school year.
Computer use is a valuable resource for a student's education. Student use of the school's
computer system is a privilege and not a right, which may be authorized as well as withdrawn.
Although student use of the school's computer system at school will be supervised by school
staff, the school cannot guarantee that students will not gain access to inappropriate material. The
school encourages parents/legal guardians to have a discussion with their students about values
and how those beliefs should guide student activities while using the school's computers,
networks, and Internet access. Use of the school's computers, networks, and Internet access is
subject to the terms and conditions of Policy #CC - Computer and Internet Use Policy. Students
have a responsibility to insure the following:
1. Student Personal Safety:
a. When using the school's Internet access, students should not disclose personal
information such as home addresses, home telephone numbers, social security
numbers, etc.
b. Students may use school Internet access for teacher-directed educational activities
and limited personal use as defined in policy #CC.
c. Students may use school Internet access only when authorized.
d. Student may use the school Internet access only when the school is open and
supervision is present.
2. Prohibited Activities:
a. Students shall not use the school's computer system to engage in any illegal
activities, such as harassment, discrimination, defamation, threatening or violent
communications and behavior, infringement of copyright or trademark laws,
offering for sale, purchase, or use of any prohibited or illegal substances, etc.
b. Students shall not damage or disrupt the school's computer system.
c. Students shall not gain, or attempt to gain, unauthorized access to other computers
or the school's computer system.
d. Students shall not plagiarize works or violate copyright or trademark laws.
3. Inappropriate Conduct:
The following are prohibited in public, private, or posted messages or files:
a. Any inappropriate communications with other students or anyone else that is
obscene, profane, lewd, vulgar, belligerent, inflammatory, or threatening.
b. Potentially damaging, dangerous, or disruptive material.
19
c. Personal or generalized attacks or harassment.
d. False or defamatory information.
4. Inappropriate Access to Material:
a. The school's computer system shall not be used to access material that is obscene,
pornographic, sexually explicit, sexually suggestive, harmful, or otherwise
inappropriate.
b. Inadvertent inappropriate access should be reported promptly to the student's
teacher or administrator.
5. No Expectation of Privacy:
Students have no expectation of privacy in files, disks, documents, etc., which have been
created in, entered in, stored in, downloaded from, or used on the school's computer
system.
6. Violations and Discipline:
a. In the event that a student introduces a virus to the school network system, the
cost of repairing the network may be charged to that student.
b. In the event there is an allegation that a student has violated Policy #CC, the
student will receive notice of the alleged violation and have an opportunity to
present an explanation.
c. In the event of a violation of Policy #CC, appropriate disciplinary action will be
taken in accordance with established Board of Trustees policies and
administrative procedures, including losing computer use privileges, suspension,
and expulsion.
I acknowledge that I have read and understood the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
Policy #CC - Computer and Internet Use Policy, and hereby agree to abide by and comply with
all of the said terms and conditions.
Revised May 18, 2021
Computer Usage and Fraud
Computers are used at UCAS to assist in the educational process. Students may have access to the
computers if they follow the posted technology policies and the teacher’s disclosure statements.
Students who violate computer policies will lose their computer use privileges. Accessing or
altering private computer information is illegal and will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the
law. The cost of restoring the computer hardware, software, or data will be charged to the student.
Criminal Behavior
The UCAS Administration strives to maintain a safe and orderly campus. Report all criminal
activity immediately at the office. The UCAS Statement on orderly and Safe School policy covers
issues regarding student misbehavior. Students involved in criminal activity will be referred to the
police. You may call the school and leave an anonymous message regarding weapons or school
safety. There is also an anonymous tip line available on the UCAS website.
20
Dances
Only current UCAS students are invited to stag dances. One guest per UCAS student is allowed at
date dances (see below). Most school dances begin at 7:00 p.m. and conclude at 10:00 p.m. The
administration may refuse admission to anyone if they feel that the person’s presence or behavior
may create an unsafe or disruptive situation. UVU police are on-call for all UCAS dances. The
Safe School, Dress and Grooming, and Behavior policies are all in effect at extracurricular events.
Clothing worn at dances must be clean, modest, and appropriate for the activity. Dress
requirements are posted for the date dances. Lewd or sexually suggestive dancing is not permitted.
To decrease the chances of student accidents, dances will be held in Utah Valley except when
approved by the administration and the Board of Trustees.
To ensure the safety and security of UCAS students, only UCAS staff and pre-selected volunteers
will be permitted in the dances. Parents who wish to volunteer to chaperone at a UCAS dance
should call the main office at 801-863-2222 for further information.
Students who do not attend UCAS may attend date dances if: 1) guests are invited to attend the
dance, 2) guests are attending as a date of a UCAS student, 3) guests have filled out a “guest form”
prior to the dance (this form requires parent signatures - guest forms are available in the office.),
and 4) guests are not currently under an educational suspension. All guests to UCAS dances must
be enrolled in a high school program. Activity cards or a driver’s license are required for entry
at all dances.
Dress Code for Dances
School dances, including Prom, have a different dress code. For these occasions, students will be
allowed to wear hats. Tanks tops or spaghetti straps will also be allowed at dances. All tops MUST
have a strap or sleeve and the chest must be covered. Skirt, dress, and shorts lengths should reach
mid-thigh at dances.
Disclosure Statements
Each teacher will issue a disclosure statement for their class at the beginning of the course.
Teachers determine grading and assignment procedures and policies to be used in their classes. All
students are expected to abide by classroom standards and procedures as outlined in the disclosure
statements.
UCAS Board Policy CD
Discrimination and Harassment
Discrimination and harassment complaint forms can be found on the UCAS website.
1. PURPOSE AND PHILOSOPHY
1.1. The Utah County Academy of Sciences (UCAS) is committed to providing an
environment free from illegal harassment and other forms of discrimination based
upon:
21
1.1.1. race, color, national origin, sex, religion, or pregnancy, as such protected
classes are defined in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Civil Rights Act) and the
Utah Anti-Discrimination Act (UADA);
1.1.2. disabilities, as such protected class is defined in the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and the UADA;
1.1.3. age, as such protected class is defined in the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA) and the UADA;
1.1.4. status as a veteran, as such protected class is defined in the Vietnam Era
Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 (VEVRAA); and
1.1.5. any other legally protected class(es) as defined by applicable state and federal
law.
1.2. It is the belief of UCAS that an environment free of discrimination and harassment is a
necessary part of a healthy learning and working atmosphere.
1.3. The Utah County Academy of Sciences is committed to eliminating illegal
discrimination through education and administrative support.
2. EMPLOYEES
2.1. No employee of UCAS may illegally discriminate on the basis of race, color, national
origin, sex, religion, pregnancy, disability, age, status as a veteran, or any other legally
protected class(es) as defined by applicable state and federal law when assigning work
or education related benefits and burdens. The Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) has identified tangible job actions to include, but not limited to:
2.1.1. Hiring and firing
2.1.2. Promotion and failure to promote
2.1.3. Disciplinary action including suspension and demotion
2.1.4. Undesirable reassignment
2.1.5. A decision causing a significant change in benefits
2.1.6. Compensation decisions, and
2.1.7. Work assignments
2.2. Discrimination, harassment and retaliation are prohibited by Titles IV, VI, and VII of
the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Employment discrimination is also prohibited by the Utah
Anti-Discrimination Act, UCAS 43a-45.
2.3. UCAS will accommodate breastfeeding in the workplace by providing reasonable
breaks and access to a room with privacy and a refrigerator for breastfeeding purposes.
2.4. Nothing in this policy shall prohibit a person from filing an employment discrimination
claim directly with the Utah Anti-Discrimination and Labor Division, 160 East 300
South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84116.
2.5. Nothing in this policy shall prohibit a person from filing an education discrimination
claim with the Office of Civil Rights, of the U.S. Department of Education.
3. STUDENTS
3.1. No student of UCAS may illegally discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex,
disability, ethnic background, national origin, religion, creed, age, marital status,
citizenship, disability, status as a veteran.
3.2. No student of UCAS may engage in illegally harassing conduct, which creates a hostile
environment for other students or employees of the school.
3.3. UCAS employees with supervisory responsibility who know or have reason to know
this policy is being violated must report the incident to the administrator and take
22
action to correct the situation.
3.4. It is the policy of UCAS to provide fair, expeditious and uniform procedures for
investigation and resolution of claims of illegal harassment or discrimination.
3.5. Nothing in this policy shall prohibit a person from filing an education discrimination
claim with the Office of Civil Rights, of the U.S. Department of Education.
4. USDA NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT
4.1. In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture
(USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, offices,
employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are
prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, sex, disability, age,
or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity in any program or activity
conducted or funded by USDA.
4.2. Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program
information (e.g. Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.), should
contact the Agency (State or local) where they applied for benefits. Individuals who
are deaf, hard of hearing or have speech disabilities may contact USDA through the
Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be
made available in languages other than English.
4.3. To file a program complaint of discrimination, complete the USDA Program
Discrimination Complaint Form, (AD-3027) found online at:
http://www.ascr.usda.gov/complaint_filing_cust.html, and at any USDA office, or
write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information
requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992.
Submit your completed form or letter to USDA by:
4.3.1. mail:
U.S. Department of Agriculture
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
1400 Independence Avenue, SW
Washington, D.C. 20250-9410;
4.3.2. fax: (202) 690-7442; or
4.3.3. email: program.intake@usda.gov.
4.4. This institution is an equal opportunity provider.
5. COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES
5.1. Those who believe they are victims of harassment or discrimination, or are witness to
such acts, may utilize one or more of the following options.
5.1.1. Seek advice from a designated compliance officer, or employee representative or
(others).
5.1.2. Seek to resolve issues directly with the accused.
5.1.3. Seek to resolve issues through supervisory personnel.
5.1.4. Register a formal complaint with the administrator who will initiate an
investigation.
5.1.5. File a complaint with the Utah Antidiscrimination and Labor Division within 180
days of cause of action, or within 300 days of cause of action with EEOC.
5.1.6. Although any investigation will give deference to a complainant’s preferences,
any investigation that ensues need not be based on the alleged victim’s choice of
23
action.
5.1.7. If an investigation reveals evidence of criminal conduct, the matter will be
referred to local law enforcement regardless of the complainant’s choice of
action. The administrator will continue with his/her own investigation.
5.1.8. All investigations will be treated with discretion to protect the privacy of those
involved. All efforts will be made to treat the information as confidential,
however absolute confidentiality of all information obtained through an
investigation cannot be guaranteed.
5.1.9. Complainants may be encouraged, but shall not be required to confront
respondents.
5.1.10. The accused may not contact the alleged victim during an investigation without
permission of the administrator and the complainant.
5.2. Specific to USDA Food and Nutrition Child Nutrition Programs: The School Food
Service Authority’s (SFA’s) procedures for receiving a complaint cannot prevent a
complaint from being accepted; and the procedures must identify the outside agency to
which complaints are forwarded (i.e., SA, FNSRO, FNS Office of Civil Rights, or USDA
Office of Civil Rights). Additionally, the SFA’s procedures must not indicate that they
attempt to resolve the complaint themselves nor can the SFA’s complaint process be a
prerequisite for accepting a complaint. The SFA must ensure complaints are forwarded
to the USOE Child Nutrition Programs, FNS Regional Office, FNS Office of Civil
Rights, or the USDA Office of Civil Rights. Complainant must file complaint within
180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. Complaints may be written, verbal, or
anonymous. Civil Right complaints pertaining to the National School Breakfast and
National School Lunch programs received by the school or foodservice director must be
forwarded to the Utah State Office of Education Child Nutrition Programs, 250 E 500 S
PO Box 144200, Salt Lake City UT 84114-4200, 801-538-7680 main phone; 801-538-
7883 fax or emailed to the CNP Director or NSLP Coordinator. Complainants may also
file a complaint as instructed on the Justice for All poster.
6. GRIEVANCES
6.1. Any person who believes that he/she is the victim of or who has knowledge of
discrimination, harassment, should report that conduct directly to the administrator who
is also the Title IX Coordinator. Reports of policy violations may be oral or in writing.
If a complainant is unwilling to file a written complaint, the administrator shall proceed
with the investigation if deemed to be in the best interest of all parties and the school. In
all circumstances, the person receiving the complaint will utilize their best efforts to
resolve the allegations. Complaints should be submitted using Policy CD – Form B. They
should be submitted to the administrator using the following contact information: Utah
County Academy of Sciences, Attn: Title IX Coordinator, 940 W 800 S, Orem, UT,
84058.
6.1.1. If a report is not in writing, an attempt should be made to acquire the
complainant’s signature on the report form. If the alleged victim is unwilling to
sign the report form attesting to the truth of the allegations therein, he or she
should be informed that their refusal might prevent further processing of the
complaint.
6.1.2. The report form shall include identities of those claimed to be involved, a
description of the behaviors complained of, the harm caused by the conduct, and
24
the resolution sought by the complaining party. See report forms associated with
this policy.
6.2. If the initial report is directed to the administrator, the administrator shall complete the
report form after interviewing the complainant. The administrator shall attempt to resolve
the complaint directly with the parties. If the dispute is resolved to the satisfaction of the
parties, the agreement reached shall be documented in writing with all parties signing
and receiving copies. If terms have been met, the complaint will be closed. If terms have
not been met, an investigation will begin.
6.3. Any reports received by the persons other than employees with line authority over the
complainant or respondent must be referred to the administrator.
6.4. The administrator shall conduct an intake on all initial unresolved complaints brought to
their attention. If attempts to the parties to reach a mutual agreement fail, the complaint
shall be formally investigated.
6.5. In addition to filing a complaint with UCAS, complainants may also contact the U.S.
Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 1244 Speer Boulevard, Suite 310,
Denver, CO 80204-3582; Telephone No. 303-844-5695; Fax No. 303-844-4303; TDD
No. 877-521-2172; Email OCR.Denver@ed.gov.
7. INVESTIGATIONS
7.1. When conducting investigations, the administrator shall disclose his/her role as a neutral
investigator rather than an advocate for any party. The extent of the investigation will
be determined, among other factors, by the nature and severity of the charges, but at a
minimum will include interviews with all complainants and respondents who will have
an opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence.
7.2. The administrator shall promptly inform responding parties of the existence and nature
of the charges filed against them. This can be done by providing a copy of the written
complaint, the report form, or a written summary of the complaint. The administrator
shall also inform the responding parties of their rights and responsibilities, in writing,
during the investigation, and will provide an overview of the anticipated investigative
process. The parties shall be informed they are not to contact each other about the
complaint and investigation.
7.3. An investigation shall be completed as quickly as practicable, but within 30 days of
receipt of the complaint, unless extenuating circumstances require a longer period. All
parties shall be notified of the extension of time.
7.4. Within 10 working days of the conclusion of the investigation, the administrator shall
provide all parties a written summary reviewing the complaint, response, evidence, and
findings. The findings shall indicate whether it appears more likely than not that a
violation of this policy occurred. This conclusion will be determined by the preference
of the administrator. However, under no circumstances should an investigator make
findings and conclusions of law, which define the specific nature of the violations. The
parties will not be provided a copy of the investigative report.
7.5. The parties will then have 10 working days to provide written responses to the report and
will have them considered by the administrator.
8. REMEDIAL ACTION AND DISCIPLINE
8.1. If a complaint is found to be factually supported, in whole or in part, the administrator or
his/her designee shall implement corrective or disciplinary action necessary to eliminate
the effects of the discrimination upon the complaining party or other persons, similarly
25
situated. The complainant and respondent shall be given a written copy of the corrective
and remedial actions to be taken.
8.2. Once the administrator or his/her designee has reviewed the report by the investigation
along with responses filed by any parties, he or she shall determine whether to close the
complaint, attempt conciliation between the parties, or initiate disciplinary proceedings.
8.3. If disciplinary action is recommended, the respondent shall be notified of his/her due
process rights.
8.4. Within 90 days following the resolution of a complaint or the imposition of sanctions
resulting from a complaint, the administrator shall conduct a review to determine if the
resolution of the case is being followed. If the resolution is being followed, the matter
will be deemed closed. If the resolution is not being followed, the case shall be referred
back to the administrator for further action.
9. RECORDS
Records of all discrimination or harassment complaints shall be maintained by the
administrator as required by law and regulation. The records will be kept in a separate and
confidential file as required by GRAMA. Information gathered, developed and documented
in the investigation will be regarded as a “protected” record.
10. RETALIATION
Retaliation against any person who opposes a practice that is forbidden by this policy, or has
filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in an investigative
proceeding or hearing under this policy is prohibited. Individuals found guilty of retaliation
may face disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
11. TRAINING
UCAS recognizes the importance of educating its employees and students regarding the
prevention of discrimination and harassment, the promotion of cultural diversity, and the
observance of high ethical standards. To these ends, the school will provide ongoing training
and education in this area. Notice of this policy will be distributed and training will be
conducted for employees and students of UCAS.
Updated November 28, 2022
Dress and Grooming
UCAS Board Policy JB
1. PURPOSE AND PHILOSOPHY
1.1. This dress code has been established because the Board of Trustees (The Board) at the
Utah County Academy of Sciences (UCAS) believes that students represent the school
when they participate in classes at Utah Valley University, when they ride public transit,
and when they participate in the community.
1.2. Dress codes address possible safety concerns by increasing the ability to spot trespassers
at the school.
1.3. Some forms of dress and hair styling tend to attract improper attention to the individual
and sometimes interfere with the normal educational process. All students are expected
to conform to the standards of dress and grooming outlined below when participating in
any school activity.
1.4. The only exceptions shall be for certain special days or activities, which are declared
exempt by the school administration. Personal exceptions will be determined by the
administration.
26
2. STANDARDS FOR STUDENTS
2.1. Hair shall be neat, clean and well groomed. Extreme styles that pose a distraction to the
learning environment are not acceptable.
2.2. Clothing shall be modest, neat, and clean. Students must wear shoes. Clothing and/or
jewelry shall not be worn which displays obscene or suggestive words or pictures or
which advertises any substance which a student cannot legally possess or use. Clothing
shall be worn to cover the shoulders, chest, midriff, and back. Underwear must always
be covered and not be visible. Short shorts, biking shorts, extremely short skirts or
dresses, low rider pants, tank, halter, crop tops, and spaghetti straps do not meet the
modesty standards of. Skirts and shorts length must be at least mid-thigh. Skirt slits and
holes in jeans must comply with this policy.
2.3. The wearing of chains or any article of clothing or jewelry that may pose a safety concern
at school is not allowed.
2.4. As a show of respect for our school, we ask that headwear (hats, caps, etc.) not be worn
in the UCAS school building. Religious exemptions will be determined by the
administration.
2.5. Piercings in the ears and up to one visible piercing outside of the ear will be allowed.
Piercings may be required to be removed if they pose a safety concern for certain class
activities.
2.6. Offensive tattoos need to be covered.
2.7. Accessories must not present a health or safety risk. Items that could be dangerous or be
used as a weapon (spikes, needles, chains, etc.) are not allowed.
2.8. The Board has asked the UCAS Administration to use their best judgment in evaluating
violations of this policy.
3. STAFF RESPONSIBILITY
3.1. If a student's dress or grooming violates the school rules or interferes with the normal
education process, he/she will be asked to change whatever is in question. Continual noncompliance may result in additional disciplinary action at the discretion of the
administration.
3.2. The Board has delegated to the UCAS administration the responsibility to implement this
policy.
3.3. While the Utah State Board of Education neither encourages nor discourages school
uniforms, UCAS shall adhere to the Rules and Regulations and Procedures that are
outlined in this policy and maintain congruence with Utah Code Annotated 53G-7-8.
Update February 15, 2022
Checklist for unacceptable attire
● PLEASE NO shorts or skirts shorter than midthigh.
● PLEASE NO holes or rips in jeans/shirts more than midthigh above the knee (when seated).
● PLEASE NO bare shoulders or underarms (sleeve past shoulder seam of shirt required).
● PLEASE NO clothing that reveals undergarments (including sheer blouses).
● PLEASE NO low necklines.
● PLEASE NO bare midriffs.
● PLEASE NO ads for alcohol, drugs, tobacco.
● PLEASE NO clothing displaying, representing, or suggesting illegal, vulgar, or obscene words.
27
Dress Code for Dances
School dances, including Prom, have a different dress code. For these occasions, students will be
allowed to wear hats. Tanks tops or spaghetti straps will also be allowed at dances. All tops MUST
have a strap or sleeve and the chest must be covered. Skirt, dress, and shorts lengths should reach
mid-thigh at dances.
Electronic Devices
UCAS Board Policy JK
This policy includes but is not limited to the following electronic devices: laser pointers, beepers,
cell phones, Blackberry, iPhone, hands-free devices, cameras of any type, personal laptops or
other computers or electronic games.
1. No electronic devices shall be used at school during class time without teacher permission.
2. Students may have electronic devices in their possession but they must be turned off during
class and during testing or assessment.
3. Electronic devices may be appropriately used during lunch time, at class breaks and before
and after school. If, however, that device causes a disturbance on school grounds, it may be
confiscated.
4. Students shall not use electronic devices at any time or place for:
a. Activities which disrupt the educational environment,
b. Illegal activities in violation of state or federal laws or regulations
c. Unethical activities, such as cheating on assignments or tests,
d. Immoral or pornographic activities,
e. Activities which violate Board of Trustees policies and procedures relating to student
conduct and harassment,
f. Activities which invade the privacy of others.
5. Exceptions to this policy may be granted by the UCAS administration for the following
reasons:
a. Medical reasons,
b. Teacher permission (instructional use),
c. Emergency,
d. Other reasons approved by the UCAS administration.
6. Consequences for Violation of this policy
a. Teachers (employees, counselors, technicians, secretaries, other staff, etc.) may
confiscate electronic devices during class time if used in violation of the above
guidelines.
b. Confiscated electronic devices will be returned to the student or to the parent.
c. Refusal to surrender electronic devices upon request is considered insubordination and
will result in suspension.
d. Misuse of electronic devices may result in students losing computer access,
Mountainland Technology (MTECH) and/or Utah Valley University (UVU) access,
suspension, or expulsion.
e. Electronic equipment that has been seized may be subject to search.
7. Other provisions
28
a. Picture taking or recording by students is strictly forbidden in school or school activity
private areas such as locker rooms, counseling sessions, restrooms, etc.
b. Students are responsible for their own electronic devices. If devices are borrowed or
taken and misused by non-owners, device owners are jointly responsible for the misuse or
policy violation(s).
c. Parents and students will be notified of this policy as early as possible in the school
year. The policy will be covered in the Utah County Academy of Sciences (UCAS)
Student Handbook.
Updated 10/2018
Eligibility
UCAS students must remain in good standing to participate in many different programs. These
programs include UCAS classes, student government, concurrent enrollment classes, UVU oncampus classes, and activities such as club leadership positions, yearbook, optional class fieldtrips,
talent shows, etc.
Participants in UCAS Concurrent Enrollment Classes, UVU on-campus classes, extracurricular activities, and Student Government must meet the following GPA requirement:
Concurrent Enrollment
● 3.0 cumulative GPA or higher prior to the semester student is to enroll for the first CE courses
(see academic standing for details)
UVU on-campus classes
● 2.0 semester GPA or higher (see academic standing for details)
Student Government
● 3.0 semester GPA or higher prior to the elections and no current “F” grades on progress report.
Other Classes and Activities
● 2.5 semester GPA or higher prior to the activity and no current “F” grades on progress report.
In addition, the student must have:
● No F, I, W, UW, or E grades earned during the semester prior to the activity and the latest
progress report before the activity.
● Not less than 90% attendance in any class.
● Served all detentions for excessive tardiness, excessive absences, and unexcused absences.
● No safe-school violations or suspensions.
Any exceptions must be approved by the principal.
Emergency Evacuation
In the event of an emergency, students will evacuate the buildings under the direction of their
current teacher for roll call and further instructions. If the emergency occurs during passing time
students should meet their previous period teacher. If the emergency occurs during lunch, students
should meet their 3rd period teacher. If the building cannot safely be occupied, the students will
be moved to the UCAS activity center or a safe location.
29
Fund Raising Drives
All fund-raising activities associated with UCAS or UVU organizations should be approved in
advance by the administration. Raffles and games of chance are not allowed. Utah health code
prohibits bake sales or the sale of any food items that are prepared at home.
Grade Changes
All grade changes must be completed within 10 days after grade distribution. Grade changes must
be made by the teacher unless a grade reduction was the result of a clerical or computer error. The
administration will change grades only if a clerical error has occurred after the teacher submitted
the grade.
Home and Hospital Instruction
UCAS will facilitate home and hospital instruction for those students with a doctor-verified, longterm need to be out of school (more than two weeks). Further information is available from the
counselors. This does not include UVU concurrent enrollment courses or on campus courses.
Home School
Parents wishing to home school their students must make application through the UCAS Principal.
Upon approval, the following policies currently apply:
● State or school truancy actions WILL NOT apply to students who are exempt from compulsory
attendance. School attendance policies WILL be in effect for any concurrent enrollment classes
that a student chooses to take at UCAS.
● Home school students who choose to take selected classes at UCAS may not be on campus
during the regular day except during the actual time of their class or advisory period.
● When a student enrolls in a UCAS class, all the rules, regulations, fees and fee waivers apply.
● No UCAS class may be taken for audit credit. All classes carry the regular earned grade and
credit and will be entered on the student’s transcript.
Insurance
Accident insurance will be available for purchase through UVU during the first month of school
for those who desire it.
Lost & Found
Lost and found articles will be held in the main office or activity center. Items must be correctly
identified to be returned. Items left over 30 days or after graduation in May will be given to charity.
30
Non-Discrimination
It is the policy of UCAS not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, or
handicap in any educational program, service or activity. Information regarding the grievance
procedure to follow for addressing possible discriminatory concerns may be obtained from:
Jennilyn Derbidge, Compliance Officer, UCAS, 940 W 800 S, Orem, UT 84604 (801) 863-2222.
Overnight Activities
Over-night parties, hazing, initiations, etc. are not appropriate UCAS activities. Regular curfew
hours must be observed at all high school events with the exception of the senior all-night-party.
Parking
Students who drive to UCAS should follow UVU’s parking standards.
Some options that are available to students include the following:
● Obtaining a free parking permit at the UVU Parking for specific “free lots”. Contact the UVU
parking office for more information.
● Paying for a regular UVU permit at the UVU Parking Office or online.
● Release time students may request a parking permit through the Release Time office.
More information can be obtained by checking UVU Parking Services Website at
http://www.uvu.edu/parking/
Students who drive to UCAS must follow UVU parking guidelines which include:
● Do not park in Handicap, Employee, or Visitor stalls.
● Park in marked stalls ONLY.
● The issuance of a parking decal does not guarantee an available parking space.
● Student cars should be locked at all times to avoid theft.
● Accidents must be reported immediately to the police at 801-863-5555.
● Loitering in the parking lot is not allowed.
● Improper parking will be cited by UVU.
● Vehicles may be booted or towed (at the owner's expense) for serious or repeat violations.
● Parents may park in visitor parking on the north/west side of UCAS. All visitors must checkin at the office before going to any class.
● Unsafe driving on UVU campus can result in a fine and referral to police.
Personal Property
Students should not bring valuables (large amounts of cash, expensive jewelry, cameras, electronic
devices, etc.) to school. All items brought to school (books, bikes, clothes, etc.) should be properly
31
secured. Personal items brought to school must be secured in the student’s backpack. UCAS
assumes no responsibility for loss or damage to personal property brought on campus.
Personal and School Property
1. Students will be charged for loss or damage of school property.
2. Bike racks are provided for student use, but students assume all risk for the security of their
bikes. Bikes are not allowed in the building. No skates, roller blades, or skateboards are
allowed to be used in or on the area around the UCAS building.
3. Students are not allowed to have spray paint, glass cutters, permanent ink markers, or
other graffiti tools.
4. Items which are forbidden by the Safe School Policy (drugs, alcohol, tobacco, pocket
knives, weapons, lighters, etc.) will be confiscated and given to police.
5. A theft or loss report should be completed if property is stolen or misplaced.
Prescription Drugs
Students may not possess prescription drugs at school. If students need to access prescription drugs
while at school, they must bring the container of medication to the main office, with a note from
the doctor listing the medication, dosage and storage instructions. The student will be able to access
the medication according to the doctor's instruction, at their convenience.
Progress Reports
Parents may obtain student progress reports on the internet. Parents will be notified by phone or
letter, of academic, attendance, or classroom behavior problems as needed. Formal Parent-Teacher
Conferences will be scheduled throughout the school year. For grade and attendance information
see the UCAS website at www.UCAS-edu.net.
Public Display of Affection (PDA)
Dating and friendships are a part of being in high school. Some students choose to show affection
to others at school and in public. Most public displays of affection (PDA) are NOT appropriate
and are disruptive to the educational climate. Quick (3 second) hugs are okay, but extended
hugging, kissing, holding hands in class, or hanging on each other is not allowed. We encourage
friendships but not romances. Students may be warned, put on a PDA Control Contract, parents
called, and/or suspended for repeat offenses.
Public Display of Affection Control Contract
I, _____________________________, agree to refrain from Public Displays of Affection (PDA)
such as kissing, extended hugging, prolonged bodily contact, inappropriate touching, cuddling, or
any other sexually oriented behaviors (as determined by the school administration).
32
I understand that excessive PDA is distracting to other students, teachers, and visitors. Excessive
PDA is not the kind of behavior that the parents or the administration of UCAS want students
involved in while they are on campus. Private behavior is the responsibility of the student and
parent, while public behavior at UCAS is the responsibility of the administration of the school.
It is not the intent of the administration to police occasional hugs and/or hand holding in the hall.
The intent of the administration is to encourage a friendly and positive environment at UCAS.
Excessive PDA has a negative impact on the learning experiences we are working to create at
UCAS.
If I fail to maintain this contract I understand that this contract will be sent to my parent(s) and I
could be subject to suspension from UCAS for a period of time determined by the administration.
Failure to follow the PDA Control Contract is considered a violation of the Orderly and Safe
Schools Policy (1-4) and will be dealt with appropriately.
Refunds
Lunch refunds will be mailed to students at the end of the school year, if requested, or moved into
the student’s lunch account for the following year. No refunds will be made to students after the
first day of the school year.
Scholarships
Scholarships are available for students who excel in academics and extracurricular activities.
Scholarship information will be posted and identified in the UCAS web-site under the counseling
tab. For more information, contact the university or your counselor.
Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment is unwanted, unwelcome behavior of a sexual nature. Sexual harassment is any
act or comment of a sexual nature which makes another person feel uncomfortable. Schools are
required by law to maintain an environment free from sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment takes many forms. Here are a few:
● Displaying gender offensive items, photos, posters, etc.
● Inappropriate gestures, touching, or grabbing,
● Sexual remarks, suggestions, repeating or spreading rumors,
● Inappropriate comments about a person's body, or
● Pressure for unwanted sexual activity.
● E-mail, text messages, photos sent by phone, etc.
In a school or work environment flirtation is most often inappropriate, but sexual harassment is
always illegal.
33
What can you do?
1. Say “Stop!” Tell the harasser you do not like the behavior and you want it to stop.
2. If it continues, tell someone: Talk to a teacher, counselor, or principal.
3. Keep Records: If the behavior continues, write it down. Be sure to include dates, times, names,
places and witnesses.
4. Take Action: File a written complaint with the administration.
5. ** NOTE: Sexual harassment is addressed in the Safe School Policy and will be handled as
described therein. Written, signed statements are required. Federal Law prohibits sexual
harassment of any kind by students or employees of UCAS. Examples of sexual harassment
include jokes, physical gestures, inappropriate physical contact, negative or offensive
comments or any other written, expressed or visual material that is humiliating or derisive that
creates an uncomfortable work or learning environment. Violations should be reported.
Following an investigation, appropriate action will be taken.
Snowballs
Injuries can and do occur as a result of snowballs. Throwing snowballs in a public place is against
the law. Violators can be fined. Repeat offenders will be referred to the police.
UCAS Board Policy CE
School Visitors
1. PURPOSE AND PHILOSOPHY
In an effort to maintain a safe school environment that is conducive to the educational climate
and mission of UCAS, the following rules shall apply to all visitors and to all activities
during the school day.
2. VISITOR RULES
2.1. Parents or guardians of students are welcome and encouraged to come to the school at
any time; however, they must sign in at the main office.
2.2. All visitors must sign in at the main off and obtain clearance before visiting any
classroom, activity or student. Approved visitors will be issued a UCAS visitor pass
which must be worn and remain visible during the entire UCAS visit and surrendered
upon exit to the main office staff.
2.3. Visitors may visit UCAS between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., if there is an
educational reason for the visit. Educational reasons may include a visit with a teacher
or counselor, a tour of the school for a potential new student or any educational reason
that has been approved by an administrator.
2.4. Visitors may not loiter in the parking lot or in the immediate vicinity.
2.5. The UCAS administration will determine appropriate action or consequences for
violations of this policy.
3. VISITOR CLARIFICATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
3.1. When the policy refers to “UCAS” or the “school”, it is referring to both UCAS
buildings, the surrounding play fields, parking lots, and all locations used by UCAS for
classes or activities.
34
3.2. Visitors who are accompanied by an administrator or a member of the office staff are not
required to obtain a visitor pass from the office.
3.3. The term “loiter” used in the visitor policy is defined as “to stand doing nothing in
particular”, “to remain in or hang around an area for no obvious purpose”, or “to wander
aimlessly in or about a place.”
3.4. The consequences of violating this policy may include being escorted off campus, being
escorted off campus by the campus police, being charged with trespassing (Utah Code
76-6-206), being charged with disrupting a school (Utah Code 76-9-106).
Updated September 2014
CONSEQUENCE PROCEDURES
Statement on Orderly and Safe Schools
The Utah County Academy of Sciences Board of Trustees adopts the policies and procedures set
forth herein to create an orderly and safe place for each student to learn. This means that UCAS
will have a positive learning environment free from violence, intimidation, drug use, and harm
from individuals, groups, gangs, and criminal gang-type behavior, and any other type of behavior
or activity that disrupts the orderly and safe operation of the schools. To foster such an environment
each student is expected to follow accepted rules of conduct and to show respect for other people
and obey persons in authority. Behaviors which disrupt an orderly and safe learning environment
are prohibited by UCAS.
The Board believes activities associated with youth crime, as well as the use, possession,
distribution, or sale of tobacco, alcohol and other controlled substances or drug paraphernalia
constitute a hazard to the welfare of students and staff.
It is the policy of the Board of Trustees not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed,
national origin, religion, age, disability, or gender in its disciplinary procedures.
Students classified as having a disability under the provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities
Education Act (IDEA) or Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1972 shall have these policies
and procedures applied to them in conformity with the requirements of IDEA and Section 504.
(See Utah County Academy of Sciences Special Education Policies and Procedures.)
These policies and administrative procedures apply to actions of students during school hours,
before and after school while on school or UVU property, while traveling in vehicles authorized
by the school, at all school or UVU sponsored events, and when the actions threaten or do harm to
persons or property associated with the mission or operation of UCAS.
Disciplinary proceedings shall consider relevant mitigating circumstances and provide appropriate
due process for each student. Mitigating or aggravating circumstances include, but are not limited
to, the following factors:
● prior conduct
● cooperation of all involved
35
● attitude and honesty of student
● willingness to make restitution
● age, health, and maturity of student
● whether receiving special education and/or 504 services
Because of their identification and association with gangs, the following are not permitted:
bandannas; headgear; or any article of clothing or jewelry bearing gang symbols, names, initials,
or insignia; or anything else which signals gang affiliation.
This section describes a broad range of misconduct that relates to criminal behavior and is
prohibited. All types of disruptive and criminal behavior are prohibited, whether listed specifically
or not.
All disciplinary actions include a conference with the student under the discretionary authority of
the principal or his/her designee. Where notification of a parent or guardian is appropriate it should
follow as soon as is reasonably practical.
Authority to Suspend or Expel a Student
The Board delegates to the UCAS principal or other administrator the power to suspend a student
for up to 10 school days. The Board delegates to the UCAS Discipline Council the authority to
suspend a student for up to one school year. The Board may expel a student for a fixed or indefinite
period, provided that the expulsion shall be reviewed by the principal and the findings reported to
the Board at least once each year [UCA 53A-11-905].
Grounds for Suspension or Expulsion from a Public School
1. A student may be suspended or expelled from a public school for any of the following reasons:
a. frequent or flagrant willful disobedience, defiance of proper authority, or disruptive or
unsafe behavior, including the use of foul, profane, vulgar, or abusive language;
b. willful destruction or defacing of school property;
c. behavior or threatened behavior which poses an immediate and significant threat to the
welfare, safety, or morals of other students or school personnel or to the operation of the
school;
d. possession, control, or use of an alcoholic beverage as defined in UCA 32A-1-105;
e. behavior proscribed under Subsection (2) which threatens harm or does harm to the school
or school property, to a person associated with the school, or property associated with any
such person, regardless of where it occurs.
2. A student shall be suspended or expelled from a public school for any of the following reasons:
a. Any serious violation affecting another student or a staff member, or any serious violation
occurring in a school building, in or on school property, or in conjunction with any school
activity, including the possession, control, actual or threatened use of a real, look alike, or
pretend weapon, explosive, or noxious or flammable material under UCA 53A-3-502, or
the sale, control, or distribution of a drug or controlled substance as defined in UCA 58-
37-2, an imitation controlled substance as defined in UCA 58-37b-2, or drug paraphernalia
36
as defined in UCA 58-37a-3; or the commission of an act involving the use of force or the
threatened use of force which if committed by an adult would be a felony or class A
misdemeanor.
b. A student who commits a violation of Subsection 2(a) involving a real or look alike
weapon, explosive, or flammable material shall be expelled from school for a period of not
less than one year subject to the following:
1. within 45 days after the expulsion the student shall appear before the Board of Trustees
or the Board’s designee, accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; and
2. the Board or designee shall determine:
a. what conditions must be met by the student and the student’s parent for the student
to return to school;
b. if the student should be placed on probation in a regular or alternative school setting
consistent with Section 53A-11-907, and what conditions must be met by the
student in order to ensure the safety of students and faculty at the school the student
is placed in;
c. if it would be in the best interest of both the school and the student to modify the
expulsion term to less than a year, conditioned on approval by the Board of
Trustees and giving highest priority to providing a safe school environment for all
students.
3. A student may be denied admission to a public school on the basis of having been
expelled from that or any other school during the preceding 12 months.
4. A suspension or expulsion under this section is not subject to the age limitations under
UCA 53A-11-102(1). [UCA 53A-11-904]
Alternatives to Suspension
When a student is suspended for any period of time, the parent or guardian, upon meeting with the
principal or other administrator, may be given the option of attending all classes with the student
in lieu of excluding the student from school during the period of suspension, or may be given
another appropriate remedial plan. These alternatives apply only if the disruptive behavior is not
of a violent or extreme nature. The parent or guardian must agree to and attend all classes with the
student for each day of the suspension, or accept and support the remedial plan. The consent of the
student’s teacher(s) is required. If the parent or guardian fails to attend all classes with the student,
or does not support the remedial plan, the student will be excluded from classes and school
activities during the suspension (UCA 53A-11-906).
Responsibility of Parent or Guardian
If a student is suspended or expelled, the parent or guardian is responsible for undertaking an
alternative education plan that ensures that the student’s education continues during the period of
suspension or expulsion. The parent or guardian shall work with school officials to determine how
that responsibility might best be met. An alternative program offered by or through the school, or
other alternatives which reasonably meet the educational needs of the student may be considered.
37
Costs for educational services that are not provided by the school are the responsibility of the
student’s parent or guardian (UCA 53A-11-907).
Acts of Misconduct/Disciplinary Action
Level 1
Level 1 acts of misconduct include, but are not limited to, the following:
1-1 Loitering
1-2 Profane, obscene, racist, indecent, immoral, or seriously offensive language, gestures,
indecent propositions, or exhibitions
1-3 Involvement in gang activity or the wearing/displaying of gang apparel
1-4 Displaying any behavior that is disruptive to the educational process
1-5 Failing to provide proper identification or information upon request by school authorities
1-6 Insubordination and/or defiance
1-7 Fighting - two people, no injuries
1-8 Sexual harassment level 1
1-9 Possession of an incendiary device (see glossary)
1-10 Use of an interfering device (see glossary)
1-11 Vandalism level 1 (damage under $200.00)
1-12 Harassment level 1 (see glossary)
1-13 Dress or grooming violation
Level 1 – Disciplinary Action
First Violation
Minimum: Student/Administrator conference
Maximum: Suspension (up to 10 school days)
 Student/Parent/Administrator conference
Repeated or Flagrant Violation
Minimum: Student/Parent/Administrator conference
Maximum: Suspension (up to 10 school days) or referral to the UCAS Discipline Council for
alternative placement or suspension, up to 45 school days.
 Loss of UCAS Scholarship for tuition, books, and fees at UVU.
Acts of Misconduct/Disciplinary Action
Level 2
Level 2 acts of misconduct include, but are not limited to, the following:
2-1 Criminal activity
2-2 Theft or possession of stolen property (misdemeanor level)
2-3 Possession of a weapon (real, look alike, or pretend)
2-4 Assault
2-5 Fighting - with injury or injuries or involving more than two people
2-6 Trespassing
2-7 Harassment or Sexual harassment Level 2
2-8 Indecent exposure
38
2-9 Use of an incendiary device
2-10 Vandalism level 2 (damage over $200.00)
2-11 Hazing
Level 2 – Disciplinary Action
First Violation
Minimum: Student/Parent/Administrator conference
Maximum: Suspension (up to 10 school days)
Repeated or Flagrant Violation
Minimum: Student/Parent/Administrator conference and/or Suspension (up to 10 school days)
Maximum: Referral to the UCAS Discipline Council for alternative placement or suspension.
Possible loss of UCAS Scholarship for tuition, books and fees at UVU
Acts of Misconduct/Disciplinary Action
Level 3
Level 3 acts of misconduct include, but are not limited to, the following:
3-1 Possession of a firearm
3-2 Use or threatened use of a weapon (real, look alike, or pretend)
3-3 Aggravated assault
3-4 Arson
3-5 Extortion
3-6 Sexual battery
3-7 Placing any person in imminent danger
3-8 Assault upon any school personnel
3-9 Theft or possession of stolen property (felony level)
Level 3 – Disciplinary Action
ANY VIOLATION
Parents and police will be notified and the student suspended for ten school days during which
time the student will be referred to the UCAS Discipline Council for alternative placement or
suspension, for up to one school year. Violations of UCA 53A-11-904(2)(a) require mandatory
suspension or expulsion for up to one school year unless, upon appeal, the Board of Trustees
determines, on a case-by-case basis, that a different penalty is warranted; [UCA 53A-11-
904(2)(b)]. Loss of UCAS Scholarship for tuition, books, and fees at UVU will also be considered.
ILLEGAL BEHAVIOR
In addition to these penalties for misconduct, provisions of the Utah Criminal Code are applicable
to behavior that is deemed illegal. UCAS Administrators are required to report all illegal activities
to the police. Any disciplinary action taken by the school administration is independent of any
criminal proceedings or decisions and is based upon the administrator’s best judgment of the
situation.
39
Statement on Alcohol and Controlled Substances Abuse
The Utah County Academy of Sciences prohibits any student use, possession, sale, distribution or
being under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, imitation controlled substances, and/or
other similarly harmful substances, or drug paraphernalia. It further bans the misuse of over-thecounter products by students. Any medications must be under the control of and administered
through the school nurse or a designated employee, pursuant to UCA 53A-11-601.
Disciplinary action, independent of any court action, will be taken by the school district for any
violation of the foregoing statement. All contraband will be confiscated.
Disciplinary Action: Use or Possession
FIRST VIOLATION
A student may be suspended from school for up to 10 school days. Students may be permitted to
continue in school if student enrolls in and attends a school-approved intervention program with
parent.
1. The principal or designee, during the suspension period, shall:
a. notify the appropriate law enforcement agency and give them all confiscated evidence and
information;
b. notify the parents;
c. schedule a parent conference during the suspension period; review with the student and
parent the Utah County Academy of Sciences Policies and Procedures on Attendance,
Orderly Conduct, Safe Schools and Substance Abuse; and
d. refer the student and parent to the school’s designated student assistance program and/or to
an approved prevention program.
2. The student shall:
a. sign a “UCAS Tobacco, Alcohol and Drug Non-Use Contract” with the parent and principal
or designee;
b. reveal the source of material associated with this violation;
c. attend with parent an approved prevention program, the cost of which will be assumed by
the parent;
d. not participate in school sponsored activities until any suspension has been removed.
Failure of the student to comply with any of the above will result in a referral to the UCAS
Discipline Council for alternative placement or suspension, for up to 45 school days.
SECOND VIOLATION
A student shall be suspended from school for 10 school days, during which time the student will
be referred to the UCAS Discipline Council for suspension up to 45 school days.
1. The principal or designee shall:
a. notify the appropriate law enforcement agency and provide the agency with all confiscated
evidence and information; and
b. notify the parents and schedule a conference.
40
2. The student shall:
a. make arrangements to meet with UCAS Administration;
b. explore educational options available during the suspension period; and
c. not participate in school- or district-sponsored activities or program until he/she has been
reinstated by the UCAS Administration.
3. Reinstatement
If a student desires to return to school after the suspension period, he/she must petition the
UCAS Administration and show evidence that he/she has done all of the following:
a. participated in a formal drug assessment, with the cost of the assessment assumed by the
parent
b. show evidence of having completed the most appropriate level of intervention program
based on the assessment by a licensed individual or agency, with the cost of the intervention
program assumed by the parent and
c. Show evidence that he/she has personally and accurately revealed to school administration
the source of the alcohol or controlled substance associated with the violation.
THIRD VIOLATION
The student shall be suspended from school for 10 school days during which time the student
will be referred to the UCAS Discipline Council for alternative placement or suspension, for up
to one school year, or to the Board for expulsion from school.
The principal or designee shall:
a. notify the appropriate law enforcement agency;
b. provide the agency with all confiscated evidence and information; and
c. notify the parents and schedule a conference.
Disciplinary Action: Sale or Distribution
The student shall be suspended and referred to the UCAS Discipline Council for alternative
placement or suspension, for up to one school year, or to the Board for expulsion.
1. The principal or designee shall:
a. notify the appropriate law enforcement agency;
b. provide the agency with all confiscated evidence and information; and
c. notify the parent.
2. If a student desires to return to school, he/she must petition the UCAS Administration and the
UCAS Discipline Council in writing and show evidence that he/she has done the following:
a. participated in a formal alcohol and/or controlled substance abuse assessment, with the cost
of the assessment assumed by the parent; successfully completed the most appropriate level
of intervention program based on assessment from a licensed individual or agency, with
the cost of the intervention program assumed by the parent
b. personally and accurately revealed the source of materials associated with the violation to
the school administrator.
41
Statement on Tobacco Use
Utah County Academy of Sciences prohibits any student use, possession, sale or distribution of
tobacco/tobacco products.
Disciplinary action, independent of any court action, will be taken by the school district for any
violation of the foregoing statement. All contraband will be confiscated.
Tobacco Use Disciplinary Action
FIRST VIOLATION
The principal or designee shall:
1. issue a citation
2. notify the parents
The student shall sign the UCAS Tobacco, Alcohol and Drug Non-Use Contract with the parent
and principal or designee.
SECOND AND FOLLOWING VIOLATIONS
1. The principal or designee shall:
a.issue a citation
b.notify parents
c.refer the student and parent to an approved assessment and/or approved intervention
program, with the cost of the program assumed by the parent.
2. The student shall:
a.participate, with parent, in approved assessment and/or intervention program(s).
b.show evidence of having successfully completed the most appropriate level of intervention
program based on the initial assessment, with the cost of the program assumed by the
parent.
Failure of the student to comply with or complete the requirements of the referral will result in
administrative action including possible suspension or referral to the Board for expulsion.
Student Self-Referral
If a student is self-referred concerning a tobacco, alcohol, or controlled substance problem, the
school administration will provide a conference with a designated educator and/or the school
counselor to discuss possible resources for assistance.
Records of Policy Violations
The records of clearly substantiated violations will be kept in the student’s confidential record.
The records will include dates, types of violations, and disciplinary actions taken. These records
will be used in assessments of subsequent disciplinary actions and eligibility.
42
The record(s) of violations from previous school(s) concerning behaviors identified in the Policies
and Procedures on Attendance, Orderly Conduct, Safe Schools, and Substance Abuse will be
reviewed before a student requesting a transfer into Utah County Academy of Sciences is
considered for enrollment and is officially enrolled in Utah County Academy of Sciences.
Student Right of Due Process
The procedures for due process are designed to protect the rights of students when a disciplinary
a problem arises that could result in long term suspension or expulsion. The process is
administrative, not judicial. Notification will be given to the student and the parent of the time and
place for a hearing and a statement of the alleged act(s) of misconduct. The notice of offenses or
charges shall state with reasonable particularity the offense or charge, shall be based upon the
information known at the time the notice is issued, and may be subject to amendment upon further
investigation or evidence. Due process includes the right to a hearing, the right to counsel, the right
to confront and cross-examine non-minor witnesses, and the right to appeal.
Procedures for hearings and appeals of disciplinary decisions by a parent/guardian are as follows:
1. Discuss the grievance with the teacher or person at the school with whom the disagreement
occurred.
2. If agreement is not reached, the parent/guardian may meet with a counselor or administrator.
3. If agreement is not reached, the parent/guardian may request an informal hearing through the
UCAS Discipline Council. The request shall be in writing and within fifteen (15) calendar days
of the school decision and addressed to the Utah County Academy of Sciences, UCAS
Discipline Council. The appeal shall be heard within ten (10) school days.
4. If agreement is not reached, the parent/guardian may submit in writing within fifteen (15)
calendar days of the UCAS Discipline Council’s decision a request for a hearing before the
Board of Trustees. If the Board grants a hearing, it shall be in executive session. Following the
hearing, the Board shall give its decision in writing.
At each stage of the proceedings, the hearing officer(s) shall conduct a de novo review, and shall
hear the matter anew the same as if it had not been heard before and as if no decision had been
previously rendered. Hearing officer(s) may receive and consider new documents, information,
and witness testimony. However, upon appeal to the Board, the Board shall only consider the
documents, information, and witness testimony presented at the hearing conducted by the school.
Failure to appeal to the next step in the appeals process within the time limits specified shall be
deemed a withdrawal and final disposition of the matter.
Once the aggrieved party has exhausted all of the administrative remedies herein he or she may
appeal to a court of law.
43
GLOSSARY
● aggravated assault - to intentionally cause serious bodily injury to another or use of a dangerous
weapon or other force likely to produce death or serious bodily injury.
● alcohol - see glossary under “use, possession, sale, distribution of alcohol, drugs, controlled
substances and imitation controlled substances.”
● alternative placement - placement of a student in a program outside of his/her regular school
setting. This may include, but is not limited to, the following: daytime alternative, 4:00-6:00
after-school alternative, and/or home placement.
● arson - the act of knowingly, by means of fire or explosive, damaging a building and/or the
personal property of others.
● assault - an attempt with unlawful force or violence to do bodily injury to another, or a threat
accomplished by show of immediate force of violence to do bodily injury to another, or an act
committed with unlawful force of violence that causes or creates a substantial risk of bodily
injury to another.
● board - the Utah County Academy of Sciences Board of Trustees.
● controlled substance - any drug delivered by a pharmacist to an ultimate user under a lawful
prescription; see also definition of “use, possession, sale, distribution of alcohol, drugs,
controlled substances and imitation controlled substances.”
● criminal activity - any activity that violates applicable criminal codes.
● disciplinary reassignment - disciplinary action involving transfer to another room or school or
alternative school placement for a specified period of time.
● distribution - means to deliver other than by administering or dispensing a controlled substance
or a listed chemical (see use, possession/sale).
● district - the superintendent and/or designee(s).
● drug paraphernalia - see definition of “use, possession, sale, distribution of alcohol, drugs,
controlled substances and imitation controlled substances.”
● due process - notification to the student and the parent of the time and place for a hearing and
a statement of the alleged act(s) of misconduct. Due process includes the right to a hearing, the
right to counsel, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, and the right to appeal.
● expulsion - permanent removal of a student from school by the Board of Education.
● extortion - obtaining of money, information or personal property from another by coercion or
intimidation.
● fighting - physical conflict between two or more individuals.
● firearms - a pistol, revolver, shotgun, sawed-off shotgun, rifle, or sawed-off rifle, loaded or
unloaded, or any device that could be used as a dangerous weapon from which is expelled a
projectile by action of an explosive.
● flagrant - outrageous, notorious, scandalous, glaringly bad.
● gang activity/apparel - wearing of bandannas, headgear or any article of clothing or jewelry
bearing any gang symbols, names, initials, insignia or anything else which signals gang
affiliation and/or is worn for the purpose of signifying gang membership. This includes gang
signing.
● graffiti - any form of unauthorized printing, writing, spraying, scratching, affixing, or
inscribing on the property of another, regardless of the content or nature of the material used
in the commission of the act.
44
● harassment level 1 – communication of a verbal, written or recorded threat, with intent to bully,
tease, or frighten another.
● harassment level 2 - intimidation and/or threat of violence.
● indecent exposure - unauthorized exposure of one’s genitals, buttocks, pubic area, or breast (if
female) [UCA 76-9-702(1)].
● imitation controlled substance - see definition of “use, possession, sale, distribution of alcohol,
drugs, controlled substances and imitation controlled substances.”
● incendiary device - any device designed to cause combustion or fire, including a lighter or
matches.
● in-school suspension - the student remains in a supervised location in school where work is
provided, but regular school freedoms are severely limited. Classes are not attended. The action
may be recorded in the student’s folder.
● insubordination - failure to obey an order by school authority.
● interfering device - any device or object which interferes with the educational process,
including lasers, laser pens, radios, portable music players, cell phones, pagers, or any
electronic equipment or other disruptive objects.
● intimidation - engaging in behavior which prevents or discourages another student from
exercising his/her right to education. Such prohibited behavior includes the use of threats,
coercion, or force to prevent another student from attending school or to recruit another student
for membership in any organization or group not authorized by the principal.
● loitering - occupying an unauthorized place on or near the school grounds, property, or
activities.
● mitigating - to make it less severe.
● other similar harmful substances - substances such as inhalants and prescription or over-the counter drugs used inappropriately.
● parent(s) - natural parents, foster parents, or legal guardians.
● possession - physical control over real or personal property.
● school days - one of the regularly scheduled 180 days in a school year and/or a summer school
program.
● school personnel - any school district employee, including administrators, teachers, coaches,
counselors, staff, aides, interns and volunteers.
● school property - school buildings and lands owned or leased by UCAS, vehicles funded by
the Board of Trustees, any areas rented or leased by the UCAS, and areas in and around any
school- or district-sponsored event.
● sexual battery - a criminal, intentional, offensive touching (whether or not through clothing)
of another’s buttocks, any part of the genitals, or the breast of a female. [UCA 76-9-702(3)]
● sexual harassment level 1 - Sexual language, whether verbal or written, including joking;
sexual conduct that is visual or silent or through any medium; or allegedly unintentional sexual
touching -- all of which create a hostile environment.
● sexual harassment level 2 - Physical, intentional, sexual conduct, touching, threat or
intimidation that is not criminal. Exchanges of sexually explicit material and/or the solicitation
of someone to send sexually explicit material to you which may be determined to be illegal.
● special education - specially designated instruction, at no cost to the parents or guardians, to
meet the unique needs of a student with a disability. This education includes instruction
conducted in the classroom, in the home, in a hospital or an institution, and in other settings
and instruction in PE.
45
● suspension - involuntary temporary removal of a student from school attendance and activities.
● theft - to obtain or exercise unauthorized control over the property of another.
● tobacco - includes cigarettes, cigars, pipes, smokeless or other tobacco products in any form.
● trespassing - to enter or remain unlawfully on property, including being present on school
grounds during a period of suspension or expulsion.
● use, possession, sale, distribution of alcohol, drugs, controlled substances and imitation
controlled substances - shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Utah Controlled
Substances Act, the Utah Drug Paraphernalia Act, the Imitation Controlled Substances Act,
and the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or any successor.
● vandalism - intentionally damaging or destroying the property of others.
● weapon - any item that in the manner of its use or intended use is capable of causing death or
serious bodily injury, including, but not limited to, BB-guns, air guns, pellet guns, blow guns,
slingshots, crossbows, archery bows, all knives, explosives, chemical, noxious, or flammable
materials, and all items containing gunpowder

